Welcome to an introduction to compositing.
So this is all about rendering a background picture and then compositing it with a 3-d render of what
we've done.
So we're going to bring different renders together into one final render our Compositing is done in
the node.
Ed we're going to show you how to view your posit changes lives.
Anything you change you can see the effect and then learn how to scale the background image independently
of the final render resolution.
You'll see how that can be a bit of a pain if we don't.
So let's go hop on over into a blender.
Right so now we're over in blender.
The first thing I want to show you is just a recap on the roundelay So if we go over to our properties
panel Properties window here and go to the render layers tab and we can see we got one render layer.
Now if we go ahead and go in and render vats with the F 12 key we can see that the cube renders if we
turn on another render layer and do exactly the same thing or you can go up here to the render menu
render image.
You'll notice that it renders twice.
And that's because it's rendering each one of these individually.
So do bear in mind if you've got lots of render layers it will slow down your render especially if it's
an animation.
So I'm going to get rid of this extra render layer we've created at the moment and go to the node editor.
Now once were any would know editor we did switch the modes to compositing mode and along the head a
bar it is the second option along on this little sound group of icons along here.
Now once were in there nothing will visibly change just yet because first of all we don't have use nodes
selected.
So let's go and put a tick in that box.
Okay so when we zoom in we can see very similar to the materials Ed will me using that with nodes.
We've got render layers here and it's plugged into the composites node.
And this is what you were getting when you render.
This is your output.
And in this case the render layer is the inputs.
Now there are lots of different types of inputs and we can add them through the ADD menu.
And if we go to inputs we can see there is a list we can pick from.
Now in this case we want to pick image and if we use an image we can go and find the image that you've
downloaded and prepared for this particular section.
Every game is going to open up looks wonderful.
And if I plug that in to our composite output when we go and render it will look like that now now it
looks slightly wrong.
Now why does it look wrong.
Lass's because the picture is bigger than the render space we've asked.
So let's go to the render properties and have a look.
So we've got 50 percent of 10 80 and this picture was quite a high resolution.
So if I turn out to 100 Let's just see how that comes out that's going to take a few moments to render
out.
And we can see that there's more of a picture being shown but not all of it.
And this can be a real pain because I certainly don't want to render a super high resolution if I'm
just prototyping.
I just don't want to do that so I will sort this out right away.
So let's go back to the node editor and I'm going to leave this render layers alone at the moment and
we need to do something with this output.
So we got the input which the image we need to do something before it gets to the outputs and we need
to add in a distortion because we're distorting that image we're changing it.
And we've got a scale option.
And when we put the scale option in there's lots of different choices we can choose from but to keep
it in line with the render output we select a render size.
There are a couple of options here.
In this particular case I'm going to pick crop.
Now it shouldn't matter.
Let's render this scene out.
Again it shouldnt actually matter.
We get the cube there what the rendering settings are set at so thats the whole picture cropped in to
fit the tensity scene so thats absolutely fine.
We can adjust that if we wanted to but thats fine with me.
Now lets turn this down to lets say 20 percent if I was doing a very quick render and lets see how that
comes out and zoom in absolutely fine.
And that was really quick as well.
A lot quicker than the first time round.
Okay so weve got that all set up now.
What else can we do.
We you can do lots of things in this node editor just like you can when setting up material so you can
mix things together.
You can change the r.g. be curb's if you wanted to.
Theres lots you can play with but one of the things that be very useful is anything changing it be nice
to see it live without having to worry about hitting F 12 every time and waiting it for it to render
out.
So how do we do that.
Well we need to add a viewer.
Now if you got noad Wrangler enabled you can hold down Shift control and hit the.
In this case the scale outputs and that will introduce a viewer.
As an output type Now what we want to do here is I'm going to get rid of that and go and outputs all
outputs and there's the view.
That's how you added him manually.
And we can just link those together.
Now we don't see anything as yet.
We need a tick on that back drop on the head bar here so there we go we can start to see this and auto
render.
Now you'll notice that this is tiny.
And again it's being governed by this resolution setting over here.
I'm going to turn that back up to 50 percent.
Nothing happens for the moment.
It would be really nice if it auto rendered all the time it sometimes doesn't support back drop on and
off again.
And there we go.
Now it can be a little bit difficult to work out this give myself a bit more space on the screen here.
It can be very difficult to actually work with nodes while the image is there.
So in the properties panel that's the end panel of the node.
Ed we've got a couple of options we can choose from and if we scroll down where we can see back drop
it's now turned on so that's another toggle it's the same as the one down here.
If I use the dropdown so I can see what's going on.
There's a zoom setting so we can zoom in and out which is very useful.
And we've got an offset as well now.
I dont tend to play with the offsets.
I literally hit the move button and then you can move this freely perhaps to a top corner and then we
can work on the nodes lower down if we wanted to.
You can also hit fits and then it all fitted appropriately to the screen determined by the resolution.
And reset back drop.
Well it's not done much in this case but it will reset to is the default position and zoom size et cetera.
So I'm going to move that up to the top corner here.
Okay so we've got everything ready to start playing with.
And I think it's time for a challenge.
I would like you to go ahead and render your first composite.
Now I know you think in.
Hang on a minute Mike you've not told us how to do this.
Well I think you already know if you've already done a lot with the cycle's materials and blending those
together I think you'll be just fine.
So it is very similar to the cycle's material set up.
You will need at least two input notes because we compositing were bringing two things together.
You I would suggest in this case you keep the image and if you've not got it in there and back in the
render layer.
And the output node is a composite.
No just in case you have been playing and I you need to mix those together there's a healthy hint as
to what you will need to do.
Ball's video now and give that a go.
Okay guys welcome back.
I hope you managed to do this.
Let's go render our first composite over in blender.
Okay so we have our roundelay here we've got the scene preview.
Everything's all set up.
And so we need to mix a render liar who is zoom in so you guys can see what's going on.
And he did mix this image here with this render layer here.
Now this is going to probably look horrible.
It doesn't matter at this point.
It's literally to mix these two together.
So if we go ahead and add in a mix node.
Now colour mix.
There we go.
I found the mix of course you could have searched up here for mix.
So you've got these two image inputs let's just mix them together and then I'm going to control and
shift click makes.
That's because I've got no Wrangler enabled on the add ons and the viewer itself.
I once what do I want to do here.
The viewer needs to be here on the output here view here and scale needs to go to there as well so I
can see what's going on on just an output from here to here.
I'm being daft.
There we go.
So what's going on here.
Well it's mixing them together and one's overriding the other let's just see what happens if we render
that out.
Does it do the same thing.
Yes the ones on top of the other.
Now can we mix them together in a way that means we can see both of them.
Let's literally try some options.
Well this is the problem here.
We've got the factor setter one.
So that is no good.
So here we go.
We blend them together we can start to see they come through.
And there are lots of other options and will get into some of those in more detail very very soon because
we're going to have to start using more to betray Shehan and division and you'll start to understand
how do you multiply and divide day an image that makes no sense.
Don't worry we'll get to that very shortly.
But if we divide we get a an interesting image it's very bright.
And again we can play with the factor and all we've bought us quite an interesting one.
So you can play with these to your heart's content and see what you end up with in this case.
There's art cubed together is saumur superimpose that's render that out.
So one or the other and it's put them together.
Perfect.
How did you guys get onto do you manage to composite these two images together.
If you have Congratulations well done.
Please share your phantom kubal perhaps you picked a different shape in the discussions.
And I will see you guys in the next lecture.